# ⚛️ generator-react-native

The aim of of this generator is to **provide structure** and a **set of patterns**
to eliminate the time you would spend bootstrapping your own. While this comes
with some opinion, there’s no overarching framework on top of React Native; it’s
purely a collection of commonly used modules and some sensible architecture to
get you or your team off the ground.

## How should the generator be used?

Create a new React Native project using their CLI tool.

```
react-native init MyApp && cd MyApp
```

Once this is complete, simply run the main generator command. This will rework
and add to the files that are generated by React Native and give you something
more akin to what you might find with `rails new`.

```
yo react-native:base
```

## Installation

This generator uses [Yeoman](http://yeoman.io/), install along with the
generator.

```
npm install -g yo generator-react-native
```

## Commands

### `yo react-native:base`

This is the main command you’ll use with the generator, you’ll typically run it
once over a new React Native application to get you setup and provide some
structure.

The outline of the application looks as described below; while it does provide
structure it also sets up various libraries to handle things like HTTP requests,
managing your applications state and long running async’ tasks.

The full list of features are described in more detail below but they do assume
an opinion with which technologies you may want to work with. However, nothing
is set in stone and most parts can be easily reworked.

```
App/
├── Actions/
│   ├── App.js
│   └── index.js
├── Assets/
│   └── AppIcon.png
├── Components/
│   ├── App/
│   │   └── index.js
│   ├── Button/
│   │   ├── index.js
│   │   └── styles.js
│   ├── Layout/
│   │   ├── index.js
│   │   └── styles.js
│   ├── Text/
│   │   ├── index.js
│   │   └── styles.js
│   └── Utilities/
│       └── Environment/
│           ├── index.js
│           └── styles.js
├── Config/
│   └── index.js
├── Helpers/
│   └── Log.js
├── Reducers/
│   ├── App.js
│   ├── index.js
│   └── Nav.js
├── Sagas/
│   ├── index.js
│   └── RequestExample.js
├── Scenes/
│   ├── Styleguide/
│   │   ├── Container.js
│   │   └── index.js
│   ├── index.js
│   ├── Launch.js
│   └── Main.js
├── Services/
│   └── API/
│       ├── index.js
│       └── logging.js
├── Store/
│   ├── Middleware/
│   │   ├── Buffer.js
│   │   ├── index.js
│   │   ├── Logger.js
│   │   └── Saga.js
│   └── index.js
├── Styles/
│   └── Variables/
│       └── index.js
├── Types/
│   └── index.js
├── App.js
└── Router.js
```

`base` will generate you a new project starting point, including the following:
* A sensible `README` providing consistent instructions between projects
* Can optionally `init` Git for you
* Router using `react-navigation`
* Redux setup
  * Store is persisted using `redux-persist`
  * Helpful state changes logged in the debugger using `redux-logger`
  * Actions are prevent from being dispatched before the cache is restored
* UI niceities
  * CSS-in-JS support for `styled-components`
  * Start to a styleguide to list your components
  * Example Button component
  * Layout component example to DRY up scene layouts
  * Pattern to organise components and their styles
* Helpful utilities
  * `log` helper to output coloured logs to the debug console
  * Visual display of your app’s environment while it’s running, this gets hidden
  in production
* Optional support for different locales using `react-native-i18n`
* Environment variables available in JavaScript, Objective C and Java using
`react-native-config`
* Sagas (to handle async tasks like HTTP requests) using `redux-saga`
* Initial setup for deep linking
* Requests are setup to be handled with `axios` with clear logging in the
debugger provided
* Automatic versioning of iOS and Android versions based on the `package.json`
version
* Pattern to manage Flow types across the app
* Generic app icon that can be processed through a separate generator to handle
all your iOS and Android icons

Please note, follow the "Manual Notes" below after running this command. Hopefully in the future these can be automated.

### `component`

An easy way to scaffold stateless and stateful components.

```
yo react-native:component MyComponent
yo react-native:component MyComponent --stateful
```

### `reducer`

An easy way to scaffold a reducer. It creates the reducer itself and a way to keep organise your associated actions.

```
yo react-native:reducer MyReducer
```

### `scene`

An easy way to scaffold a scene. Creates a new scene that is connected to the
Redux store following the container pattern.

```
yo react-native:scene MyScene
```

## Manual Notes

### After `react-native:base`

The default `react-native init` now comes with tvOS targets... These add un-needed cruft to the project. Best plan is to open the XCode project, remove the tvOS targets and then delete the files in the project themselves.

Follow the Android version of these instructions to add automatic build numbers.

[https://medium.com/@andr3wjack/versioning-react-native-apps-407469707661#.quhgn05gf](https://medium.com/@andr3wjack/versioning-react-native-apps-407469707661#.quhgn05gf)

## Resources

* [Introduction to Sagas](https://redux-saga.github.io/redux-saga/docs/introduction/BeginnerTutorial.html)
* [A great simple intro to Redux Sagas](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=msx0Qiu8NxQ&list=PLw7fHewFA6OTyUnLiZ1HQvYdzjp9ARMQw)
* [Intro to Redux](http://redux.js.org/docs/basics/Reducers.html)
* [Flow](https://flowtype.org/)
